Thoughts on Future Direction, July 2020:

Lessons Learned:
The original demonstration code for the lift algorithm was written without 
fully understanding how it would turn out.

Admittedly, that is not an ideal development path.  But in my case, taking an 
initial pass at coding was necessary to my understanding the problem well 
enough to be able to properly design it--kind of a chicken/egg problem.

I had the theory of what I was trying to accomplish from an accounting and 
economic standpoint. And I knew the principles I wanted to honor.  But I 
wasn't quite sure how (or even if) a lift could be performed in a completely 
distributed system.

In any case, the coding exercise was useful as it created a platform for 
visualizing the complexity happening below the surface in a credit lift.  And 
it made it possible for me to articulate the problem well enough for the DSR 
study to even take place.

That study was a huge learning experience.  Most notably, it helped discover 
analysis tools (such as TLA+) that can shake out the bugs in the algorithm 
before even attempting to make the next coding pass.

Going through the TLA+ tutorial was helpful just to see how others have dealt 
with achieving consensus in a distributed network.


The Central Problem:
It would appear there is no perfect way to guaranty both safety and liveness in 
a fully distributed, and de-centralized network.  There are algorithms for 
achieving consensus (Two-phase commit) but they rely on some authority 
(Transaction Manager) to arbitrate the results of the final commit.

And even the Two-phase commit algorithm has its potential problems.  We have to 
rely on the honesty and the integrity of the Transaction Manager (TM).  If that 
node goes down in the middle of the transaction, we can be left in an 
inconsistent state.  Leslie Lamport, the author of TLA+, has proposed the Paxos 
Commit algorithm which makes this process much more robust by using multiple 
TMs and hoping at least a majority of them remain reachable through the 
transaction.  That would likely provide the consistency MyCHIPs needs as long 
as the issue of de-centralization can be solved.

De-centralization is critical to success.  If there is a company, an agency,
a database, or some other ultimate authority at the center of a system, it will
ultimately become the target of some kind of corruption.  That may be an attack
by those who do not want decentralized money to succeed, or it may be an effort
to coopt the system for personal gain.  Either way, the goal of MyCHIPs is to
avoid all that and make a system regular people can use by themselves and for
themselves.

A Proposed Solution:
So what if we resolve to use a TM for each lift, but the protocol allows for 
anyone to become a TM?  The idea is: the lift initiator would propose a node it
would like to use as TM for the lift.  Each node along the lift chain could
decide if it trusts the proposed TM or not.  Participation in the lift is
always voluntary.

If the originator chooses a well known and trusted node as TM, it is more
likely to get participants for the lift.  In fact, nodes could return a
special code if they opt out purely because the proposed TM is not acceptable.
That would be a good signal to try again with a better recognized TM.

A further enhancement would be to allow sites to execute trading tallies with
a number of TMs.  TMs could, for a fee, offer lift insurance.  The TM would
guaranty not to leave the site in an inconsistent state.  And if it did, it
would provide a lift pathway to heal the imbalance of the resulting broken
lift.  If a TM site holds a tally with each party to the lift, it should be
able to formulate a fixup lift, after-the-fact, to cure any inconsistency
at no real cost (just making sure all the credits and debits cancel out).

Summary:
  - There can be any number of nodes in the network willing to serve as TM's
  - Each site can determine nodes it finds trustworthy enough to be TM
  - In addition to TM services, nodes could offer lift insurance
  - If a site gets lots of lift requests for a particular TM, not in its
    list of trusted TMs, it might want to consider establishing a 
    relationship with the new TM.
  - Objectives:
    - There is no singular authoritative system of trust.
    - Parties decide on their own who to trust.
    - Traders decide who to establish tallies with.
    - Sites decide who to trust to perform lifts.
    - Safety:
      - Sites guaranty their users lifts that will safely resolve imbalances.
      - Sites guaranty to each other to act honorably when called upon as TM.
      - Malicious actors can harm only themselves or their adjacent partner.
    - Liveness:
    - All lift transactions are guaranteed to terminate (Paxos Commit).
