Scripts for establishing a simulated MyCHIPs network

Local Simulation:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
simulation:
  Runs a specified number of instances of the server on the local machine.  This
  is good for simple simulations like testing the state transitions for peer
  dialogs.

watchlogs:
  Launches a terminal window to monitor each of the servers created from the 
  simulation command.

Network Simulation:
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The network simulation is implemented by the simnet script to launch various 
services on a number of different machines.

Each machine can run:
  - A single postgreSQL instance
  - A single SPA/clif server (currently disabled)
  - Any number of peer servers, each with its own ID, unique to the users
    it services (currently only one implemented)

When the simnet script is run, it will access each configured machine via
ssh and perform the following actions:

  - Grab any changes to the source code so it has the very latest.  This will
    be done via rsync.  We won't use git as there is no guaranty in a testing 
    environment that git will have the latest thing we are working on.
  - Kill any currently running MyCHIPs processes
  - Verify that the machine is properly configured (postgres, node, etc).
    Install/configure any necessary software.
  - Make sure the database schema has been initialized
  - Apply any changes to the database schema
  - Relaunch the SPA/clif service (currently disabled)
  - Query the database for any configured hostID's and launch one peer
    server for each unique ID (launches only one, at the moment)

Since everything is done over ssh, it will be immensely helpful to eliminate
the need to enter a password each time you connect.  You can do this with:

  ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 2048
  ssh-copy-id <username>@<servername>

This must be done manually.  It is not done as part of any automated scripting.
You must generate the key one time, and then copy it to each of the machines
you want to access for the simulation.

Most likely you will be connecting to the machines as the root user.  This
measure gives your local machine total control over each of the simulation
machines.  This can create a very big security hole.  So only use machines for
simulation that are not important for other functions.  For example, you can
create a bunch of virtual machines in the cloud that don't really do much
except to run your simulations.

Mongo Database:
The simulation uses a separate database to model the "real world" where users
meet independent of the MyCHIPs network protocol.  For example, in the real
world, two users would meet and exchange information via their devices to
facilitate the creation of a tally between them.  In the agent model
simulation, each agent is connected to a single mongo database where agents
are registered and actions are requested of other agents running on other
machines.

So you need to have mongod running somewhere.  Also, it needs to be configured
as a replica set master.  In mongod.conf, do:

:replication
  replSetName: rs0

or on the command line, include -replSet rs0.

When first connecting to the database, you must issue the command:

  rs.initiate()
